<h1>Dreams in Force.com</h1>
<h4>A pattern and code base that helps us write enterprise applications workflows.</h4>
=======

<p>With this pattern and code base, APEX and JAVA developers are able to write robust workflow oriented applications</p>

<p>Workflow Oriented Applications are those that have an entry point, for example saving an invoice; And must interact with related objects such as Products to reduce inventory and external services like Twilio to send an SMS.</p>


<h3>Operation Trigger Command</h3>
<p>This pattern that allows developers to organise code in Saleforce.com Apex Language in a simple and effective way. It provides a proven way to write code with complete flexibility and taking care of Salesforce.com Governing Limits.</p>


<p>Entry Points of workflows and transactions can be Custom Controllers (APEX REST) and Triggers ( UI , SOAP API , and REST API )</p>

<p>Instead of writing code in triggers or in the front-end, we delegate any actions that must take place on CRUD of an object to an Operation. We can do it because the Operation Class executes in the context of the trigger. We also wrap the Operation's Execute() Method in a transaction and Roll-Back in case an exception is thrown.</p>

<p>Operations are composed of commands that modify other objects, send emails and http requests. Commands are reusable blocks of code, an operation can have multiple commands.</p>

<p>Using this pattern we can code enterprise level applications in the way we have always dreamed.</p>


<h2>Getting Started</h2>
<a href="http://blogs.developerforce.com/labs/2011/04/how-to-use-git-github-force-com-ide-open-source-labs-apps.html">Blog Instrucctions</a>

<p>You will need to register with Database.com(NO UI) or FORCE.COM Developer Edition (Autogenerated UI + Reports) before hand, enter with your credential, create a Sandbox Environment ( Setup > Monitoring > Test Database/Sanbox  ) </p>

<p>In Salesforce we always work on a Sandbox enviroment, so this code should be loaded into a Sandbox enviroment, then moved into production.</p>

<ul>
  <li>Go to the designated folder for you Backend Code ( empty folder ) and Clone this repository. ( git clone )</li>
  <li>Open Force.com Eclipse IDE and select for the Workspace the folder PARENT to the folder where you cloned the repository</li>
  <li>Create a new Force.com Projects call it Sandbox and write the Sandbox Credentials. ( You must change the endpoint manually if using Database.com to https://test.database.com  )</li>
  <li>When selecting project contents select: none</li>
  <li>On the context right click menu on top of force.com project src folder, select Force> Save To Server</li>
</ul>
